in our society today, much opposition,
but we're thankful that God's on his throne
and he's given us wonderful truth in his word.
Hebrews chapter number five this evening,
and be looking at verses 11 through 14 tonight,
a familiar passage of scripture for some of us,
and be dealing with this continued thought
with regard to doing what we ought to do.
Doing what we ought to do.
I said this in the very first message of this new series,
it's only three weeks in,
and of course I wasn't here last week,
we were at the pastor's meeting,
but the Mark filled in for me,
and I certainly appreciate him doing that,
and but this is the third lesson in this mini series,
but I said this in the very first week,
just because we know that we ought to do something
doesn't mean we do it.
All right, would you agree with that?
All right, you ever eat something
that you knew you shouldn't have eaten?
You said, yeah, this is not gonna be good for me,
but man, it's gonna taste good, right?
And you did something that you knew you shouldn't do,
but you did it anyway, there are times on the flip side,
we know what we ought to do,
I ought to eat more green beans
instead of eating whatever it might be,
and that's just a silly analogy,
but the reality is that we know
that we don't always do the things
that we know that we ought to do.
Some of these are reminders for us,
but let me remind you of what Peter said
when he's writing to the persecuted believers,
he said, I'm gonna stir you up
by putting you in remembrance of these things,
though you know them,
I'm gonna put you in remembrance of them, why?
We need to be reminded of some things,
and in our text of scripture this evening,
the phraseology that is used
is that when the time that you ought to be teachers,
and we see that use of that word ought,
and that's what we're chasing after
as we're studying through this particular series,
if you will, doing what we ought to do,
I've titled the message for this evening,
we ought to grow spiritually.
We ought to grow spiritually.
As you read the New Testament in particular,
I believe that we are regularly confronted
with the subject of our walk with the Lord.
Regularly throughout the New Testament,
you find that God is challenging His people
with regard to their walk,
we understand the truth that after an individual
trusts Christ as their personal savior,
that they're to walk with the Lord
and they are to grow spiritually.
I believe that it's an expectation,
I believe it's a valid expectation
that God would have of His children
that we grow spiritually.
I believe that as we would look at the New Testament,
we look here at this text of scripture
with this idea of we ought to grow spiritually,
look at verse number 11,
the Bible says this,
of whom we have many things to say,
and hard to be uttered.
What made them hard to be uttered
really wasn't so much the context of what Paul,
I believe he is the writer of the human penman
for the book of Hebrews,
was desiring to say to them,
but what really made it hard to be uttered
was the last phrase of verse number 11,
seeing ye are dull of hearing.
For when for the time ye ought to be teachers,
ye have need that one teach you again,
which be the first principles of the oracles of God.
And it becomes such as have need of milk
and not of strong meat.
For everyone that useth milk is unskillful
in the word of righteousness,
for he is a babe.
But strong meat belongeth to them that are of full age,
even those who by reason of use
have their senses exercised to discern
both good and evil.
As we begin to look at this portion of scripture
and really think about the truth broadly speaking
throughout the New Testament
that we ought to grow spiritually,
I wanna remind you that the believers
in the church in Corinth,
they were corrected because they were carnal
and therefore incapable of receiving
the meat, quote unquote, of the word.
In fact, in 1 Corinthians chapter number three,
if you wanna jot the reference down
in 1 Corinthians chapter three,
in verses one through three,
the apostle Paul makes this appeal
to the church in Corinth
and really is correcting them
because of their carnality.
And he says this in 1 Corinthians three in verse one,
and I, brethren, could not speak unto you
as unto spiritual, but as unto carnal,
even as unto babes in Christ.
Doesn't this sound familiar
to what we just read in Hebrews?
Paul says, I have some things to say to you,
but they're hard to be uttered
seeing you are dull of hearing.
Here he says that I can't speak these things unto you,
not because Paul didn't know them,
not because Paul wasn't capable of teaching them,
but because they were carnal.
And therefore they were not ready to receive
that which Paul wanted to teach them.
In verse number two,
I have fed you with milk and not with meat.
For hitherto you were not able to bear it,
neither yet now are you able.
For ye are yet carnal,
for whereas there is among you envying
and strife and divisions,
are ye not carnal and walk as men?
And so we find a church there in Corinth
that is being corrected because of their carnality
and their lack of spiritual growth,
but yet we find, on the other hand,
the believers in Thessalonica
which are commended for their spiritual growth.
And what's very interesting
as you begin to think about the church in Thessalonica,
turn over to 1 Thessalonians chapter two,
if you will, very quickly,
and then we'll get to our text in Hebrews chapter five.
But in 1 Thessalonians chapter two,
we find that the apostle Paul
is writing to this church in Thessalonica
and really here he's giving us this great insight
with regard to the believers in Thessalonica
and their approach or their receiving of God's word.
Notice in 1 Thessalonians two in verse 13,
the Bible says this,
for this cause also thank we God without ceasing.
Notice what he says,
because when you receive the word of God
which you heard of us,
you received it not as the word of men,
but as it is in truth, the word of God,
which effectually worketh also in you that believe.
Isn't that a great verse of scripture
that gives us some understanding
with regard to the mindset of the believers in Thessalonica
that these in the church,
they received the word as Paul and company came and preached,
they received the word of God,
which they heard of Paul as he would preach,
but they didn't receive it
like they would receive the word of men.
See, because God's word is not man's word
and God's word is not to be treated like any other book,
than any other periodical,
any other magazine or any other thing that you would read.
This is God's word and notice what it says,
which effectually worketh also in you that believe.
I'm thankful this evening for God's word
working in the lives of his people.
And we find here this evening
that the church in Thessalonica,
they had a proper understanding of God's word,
which led to growth in their lives.
And if you notice in 2 Thessalonians chapter number one,
in verse number three,
2 Thessalonians one in verse number three,
Paul says, we are bound to thank God always for you,
brethren, as it is meat.
Why?
Because that your faith groweth exceedingly
and the charity of every one of you
all toward each other aboundeth.
And so we see that the church in Thessalonica
is a church that is growing spiritually
and a key for them is their understanding of God's word
and their receiving of God's word.
And so the passage in Hebrews chapter number five,
I believe that it confronts every believer
and then begs us to evaluate our own lives
to consider our spiritual growth.
Each one of us are at a different place
in our Christian journey.
Amen, each one of us,
a different place in our Christian journey.
And the reality is that there are some here
that have been saved for 40 years or more.
There's some that have been saved for 20 to 40 years,
some that have been saved for just a couple of years.
I remember when I first got to Bible college
on the day that I started Bible college
was my spiritual birthday.
I was one year old in the Lord.
I had trusted Christ on August 31st, 1997
and I started Bible college on August 31st, 1998.
And I was one year old in the Lord
and I was immature spiritually speaking.
I did not know that I've said this before,
a very first day, very first class Old Testament survey.
The professor thought he was being smart
and said, take out a piece of paper
and write all the books of the Old Testament in order.
And I could not, I was lost, I was in a mess.
Now the reality is that some of us here tonight
that maybe been saved 20, 30 years,
we may not know the books of the Bible in order.
We really should, amen.
It's not really that hard of a thing.
I remember listening to some people share and quote some,
we support Hope Children's Home.
It wasn't Hope Children's Home, it was another one.
And these young people stood up on the platform
in a service and they said,
all the books of the Bible in order.
And I thought, okay, that's wonderful.
And then they said them all in order backwards.
And I said, now that's a little different right there.
And I have a hard time saying the alphabet backwards.
I can say it forward, no problem,
but backwards, it takes me a little while.
I gotta think about it, right?
And really what I'm doing is I'm saying it in order.
order in my head and then just trying to remember
to say it backwards.
But what I'm saying this evening is that we're all
at a different place on how long we've been saved,
but we ought to be able to evaluate our lives
and say what kind of spiritual growth
is evidenced in my life?
Is there spiritual growth evidenced in my life?
And a passage like this, when we deal with the subject
doing what we ought to do and we ought to grow spiritually,
the passage does not simply call out, if you will,
these believers that are being written to
in this passage of scripture,
but it also causes us to pause and reflect
and say let me evaluate my own life
and determine how am I doing spiritually?
Am I growing spiritually?
See, the reality is that it's a dangerous thing
for us to ever just get comfortable spiritually.
It's something interesting about spirituality
and spiritual growth.
There really is no place of stagnation.
You're either going forward or you're going backwards.
And that's a very interesting dynamic.
I don't know how many of you here in the text of scripture,
they often, in both the First Corinthians
and here in Hebrews, they're using the analogy
of milk and meat and dealing with babes and mature,
and we'll look at some of that in just a moment,
but if you do any kind of weight training,
going to the gym and that sort of thing,
you find out something very interesting
when you're working out and you're making progress
and you're making progress,
but then you take a little bit of time off
and you take a couple of weeks, three weeks, a month,
maybe five weeks, but it hasn't been that long,
and then you try to go back to the gym
and do exactly what you were doing before,
what do you find out?
You find out that you've actually gone backwards, right?
You didn't maintain it, you went backwards.
It was a struggle, it was difficult,
and really that's a great example for us
with regard to spiritual living,
and so we have to understand that spiritually speaking,
I've said this many times over the years,
you and I, we're as close to God today
as we really wanna be.
We're as close to God as we really wanna be.
There's something interesting about spiritual growth
versus physical growth.
When you think about physical growth,
there are certain expectations that we have of children
based upon their age.
When they're at a certain age,
we expect them to be able to do certain things.
When they're really just a couple of months old,
we expect they're not gonna do anything but lay around,
and if I leave them there, when I come back,
they're still gonna be there.
And then all of a sudden, they can start rolling over,
and then they can start crawling,
and what you find out is that where you left them
is not where they are when you come back, right?
You know what I mean?
And then they start, Juliana told me this morning,
Nova, she's growing so fast,
she's like, she's gonna be walking so soon.
I said, get ready, girl, fasten that buckle, right?
Because when they start walking,
it's a different dynamic, right?
And then there's the talking, and then there's the reading,
and so on and so forth, right?
And there are these growth expectations based upon the age.
What happens physically if those milestones aren't met?
Say it again?
Go to a doctor.
There's reason for concern, right?
If you have a child that's two, three years old,
and they're not rolling over, they're not crawling,
I'm expecting that you were at the doctor
before they were two or three years old,
because you had a concern as a parent
that my child is not doing the things
that they should be doing based upon their age.
Am I right?
Right, they have these growth charts.
They're in the whatever percentile, right?
You know, you take your kids to the doctor,
the pediatrician, your baby's in this percentile
of height and weight, and so on and so forth,
and if it's not where it needs to be, you get concerned.
If there's not steady growth,
if there's not, you get concerned.
Am I right?
Spiritually, it's a lot different
in the sense of how long you have been saved
doesn't necessarily put you on a certain level
of how spiritual you should be,
because as we are saved,
the Holy Spirit of God lives within us,
and we can, the youngest quote-unquote in Christ,
the one that's been saved the fewest number of years
could be the most spiritual person in the room.
Amen?
Because spiritual growth is quite different
than physical growth, and spiritually speaking,
that growth comes as we are longing for it and desiring it.
We're spending time with God, and we're in his word,
and we're in his presence, and we're in church services,
and we're growing spiritually.
And so as we look at this text of Scripture,
if you're taking notes, number one,
the condition, their condition noted.
Their condition is noted for us.
Notice some of the things that we get insight here
with regard to the condition of these
that are being corrected in Hebrews chapter number five.
Number one, they were dull of hearing,
according to verse number 11.
The Bible says, of whom we have many things to say
and hard to be uttered.
Seeing ye are dull of hearing.
Now, that's not a compliment.
Amen?
This is a problem.
In fact, we could look at a number of passages of Scripture.
You could look at Matthew 13, 15.
You could look at Acts 28 and verse 27
and see some references with regard
to those that were dull of hearing.
You can find many times in the Old Testament
where God says of his people, I sent my prophets,
but you would not hear them.
And so they're dull of hearing.
The Bible tells us as we look at this passage of Scripture
and consider their condition,
it seems quite obvious to me that as you read verse number 12
that these individuals being addressed,
that they had been saved for some time.
These were not new converts.
Why do I know they're not new converts?
Well, the Bible says for when,
for the time you ought to be teachers.
There was an expectation that Paul had, that God had,
that these individuals,
after being saved for some period of time,
we don't know how long,
but it would seem to me that they're not babes in Christ
for we find other portions of Scripture
that would help us understand those that are babes in Christ
but the way it's written here,
it seems quite obvious to me that these people
had been saved for some period of time
and there was an expectation that they were now
at a place where they should have grown spiritually
for when, for the time you ought to be teachers.
You should be in a place where you have grown spiritually
that you're able to go and give some level of instruction
to someone else and be able to teach them.
Now, not every child of God
has the spiritual gift of teaching.
Not every child of God is going to have a podium
or a platform or a pulpit to teach from,
but the reality is that we have opportunities
every day of our lives to teach people, to influence them,
to teach them something about what we have learned
about who God is and what God has done for us,
what he tells us in his word.
We find that they were dull of hearing,
they'd been saved for some time.
I noticed this also when I think about
their condition being noted,
they were still babes in need of milk.
They were still babes in need of milk.
The reality this evening is that a babe that is a babe,
it's not a problem.
A new convert that's just been born again
by the grace of God, they're a babe in Christ.
As newborn babes, 1 Peter 2 and verse 2,
desire the sincere milk of the word
that you may grow thereby.
It's not a problem to be a babe in Christ.
In fact, let me say it this way,
every single one of us, at one point,
we were a babe in Christ.
The problem is if we still are a babe in Christ.
Does that make sense?
And so he says in the text of scripture
that they're still babes, still in need of milk.
Notice in verse number 12,
for when for the time you ought to be teachers,
you have need that one teach you again,
which be, notice how he phrases this,
the first principles of the oracles of God.
And it becomes such as have need of milk
and not of strong meat.
For everyone that uses milk is unskillful
in the word of righteousness, for he is a babe.
And so we find here in verse number 12
that he talks about them being in need
of someone teaching them, but not only teaching them,
but teaching them, according to what it says here,
the first principles of the oracles of God.
Could I say it this way?
The basics, the basics.
And it's not a problem if we need
to be reminded of the basics,
but if we've been saved for any length of time,
if we've been growing spiritually,
if we're taking the truth that's given to us
and we're evaluating our lives
and we're saying I wanna grow spiritually,
I shouldn't need to someone teaching me the basics.
Is that fair this evening?
And we see that here as we note their condition,
that their lack of spiritual growth,
these individuals that are being addressed
in Hebrews chapter five, different from what we find
in 1 Corinthians three, where their lack
of spiritual growth could be traced to their carnality.
By the way, carnality will stunt your spiritual growth.
You try to have one foot in the world
and one foot in church,
it's gonna stunt your spiritual growth.
You cannot serve God in mammon.
To love the world, the Bible says,
is to be the enemy of God.
Does it not in the book of James?
You adulterers, that's what he calls them.
You know, in the Old Testament,
we think about adultery and so often,
we think about it in the context
of a husband and wife relationship.
and certainly that's true,
but I want you to understand in the Old Testament,
many times when the nation of Israel and Judah
are being indicted for adultery, it's spiritual adultery.
What are they saying?
Well, you've left God to go serve idols.
Love not the world,
neither the things that are in the world, right?
1 John chapter two.
And so we find here that yes,
carnality will stunt spiritual growth,
but here, these that are being addressed
in Hebrews chapter five,
what is it that leads to a lack of spiritual growth
in their lives?
Well, it's the fact that they're dull of hearing.
They're dull of hearing.
You know, it's interesting in Revelation two and three,
in those two chapters,
God is addressing the seven churches in Asia.
And as he's addressing those seven churches in Asia,
seven times in those two chapters,
the Bible says,
he that hath an ear,
let him hear.
Seven times.
As he's writing to those seven churches in Asia
in Revelation two and three,
I think God intends for his people
to not be dull of hearing,
but to be ready to hear,
ready to receive,
ready and eager to find out what does God have for me?
How is God going to speak to me today
not only when I go to church,
but certainly when I go to church,
having that anticipation of what does God have for me?
What does God have for me today?
Because God is a personal God.
But then I think about every day opening our Bibles
and having our special quiet time with God.
What does God have for me?
Let me remind you of what the Old Testament says.
Turn to the book of Amos, if you will.
Hosea, Joel, Amos,
and go over, if you will, to the book of Amos,
chapter number eight.
Hosea, so Daniel, Hosea, Joel, Amos.
I try to help you more than some preachers
that I've heard say it's between Genesis and Revelation,
and that's always very helpful, isn't it,
when somebody says that?
But the book of Amos,
it's always fun when somebody tells you
to go to the minor prophets, you know?
Amos, chapter number eight.
And let me read this verse of Scripture for you
in Amos, chapter eight, in verse number 11.
The Bible says,
Behold, the day has come, saith the Lord God,
that I will send a famine in the land,
not a famine of bread, nor a thirst of water,
but of hearing the words of the Lord.
A famine of hearing the words of the Lord.
You know what 2 Timothy tells us?
2 Timothy tells us that we're to preach the word,
be instant in season, out of season,
reprove, rebuke, exhort with all longsuffering and doctrine
for the time will come when men
will not endure sound doctrine.
The Bible continues there in 2 Timothy, chapter number four,
and it says this,
But after their own lusts shall they heap themselves
teachers having itching ears.
Tell me something that makes me feel good.
Make me a, you know, how to be a better you,
kind of a motivational speaker and that sort of thing.
And the reality is that we are to preach the word of God,
and we understand this evening that it's an indictment
against these believers that are being addressed
in Hebrews chapter five,
that their lack of spiritual growth can be directly traced
to the fact that they were dull of hearing.
Completely opposite of what we read of the Thessalonians
in 1 Thessalonians chapter two,
they were not dull of hearing.
I mean, they were ready to receive the word of God
because they understood that it was God's word.
We see their condition noted in Hebrews chapter five,
number two, if you're taking notes,
the call to grow spiritually.
I believe this evening that spiritual growth is expected.
I said this a moment ago by way of invitation,
I believe, introduction, excuse me.
I believe that God expects that his people grow.
And by the way, I don't think that's an invalid expectation.
I think it's an appropriate expectation
that God would expect of his people
that we would grow spiritually.
Let me say this, not only is an expectation
that God has that his people would grow spiritually,
but God has given us everything
that we need to be able to grow spiritually.
He's given us all things
that pertain unto life and godliness.
Listen, if you plant a plant,
if you plant something, you expect it to grow, right?
You expect it to grow.
You expect it to produce some fruit.
You water it, you cultivate it, you do whatever,
you put some miracle grow on it, whatever you do,
and you expect there to be growth.
And if there's no growth, what do you do?
You say, what's going on here?
And it's disappointing.
I mean, John 15, if you don't bear fruit,
they're gonna cut the tree down.
That's what it says.
Last year, our garden, we had tomato plants
that were taller than Joseph last year.
I'm telling you, we had tomato plants
that were taller than Joseph.
I mean, that's tall, right?
I mean, and we had tomatoes coming out of our ears.
We didn't know what to do with all these tomatoes.
Holly was canning them, we're giving them away,
giving them away.
We haven't gotten one tomato this year.
I look at our garden, I say,
what in the world is going on?
You know what I'm ready to do with that garden?
I'm ready to go till it all up and just say, forget it,
it's been a bad year, and just start over next year.
It's terrible, not producing anything.
God expects for his people to grow spiritually.
We find that there's a call in God's word
for us to grow spiritually.
Not only is spiritual growth expected,
but I believe this evening
that spiritual growth can be measured.
I believe it can be measured.
I believe that we can look at our lives
if we do an honest evaluation
and we're humble before the Lord
and we can determine
whether we're growing spiritually or not.
We can determine in our own lives
how well we're doing in this area of spiritual growth.
Here in Hebrews chapter five, we find again,
as this appeal is given and he's saying their condition,
but then notice in verse 14, he says,
but strong meat belongeth to them that are of full age,
even those who by reason of use
have their senses exercised to discern both good and evil.
As we look at this call to grow spiritually,
we find that Paul makes this contrast, if you will,
by the babes and the spiritually mature,
by those who need milk
versus those that have the meat of the word,
those that are needing to learn the first principles
of the oracles of God
versus those that have their senses exercised
to discern both good and evil.
You know, I think we got a huge problem
in American churches today,
really in churches all across the world today.
You know what I think a huge problem is
is that we have spiritually anemic people.
We have people that have not grown spiritually.
They cannot discern between good and evil.
I'm telling you the truth.
You look at what's going on in our world today.
You look at all this nonsense
that's going on in our world today,
the mockery of God and of Christianity
and so on and so forth.
Listen, there's a lot of people today
that are unfortunately weak Christians.
They haven't grown spiritually.
They can't discern between good and evil.
We have, listen, we have people,
I read the statistics to you a few weeks ago
about those that have a biblical worldview,
and that's frightening when you look at the statistics,
but I'm telling you, listen, this evening,
when you start thinking about some of the things,
some of the main talking points in our culture today,
we start talking about gender.
Listen, how can people that say that they're Christians,
are you with me, think that there's more
than male and female?
Because God is pretty clear in his word, amen?
He created male and he created female,
period, end of story, amen?
You say, oh, you're so narrow-minded.
No, no, no, we're just biblical.
We're just biblical.
Abortion, well, you know, everyone,
listen, it's about life.
It's about life, amen?
And we can't discern between good and evil
because we're not growing spiritually.
And we got a lot of weak Christians,
not only in America, but across the globe,
and it's sad.
There's a call, 2 Timothy 2 and verse 15,
study to show thyself approved unto God,
a workman that needeth not to be ashamed,
rightly dividing the word of truth.
You know, if you're going to rightly divide
the word of truth, you have to study
and you have to be growing spiritually.
You know there are some things in the Bible that are hard?
Listen, I was reading this morning
in the book of Zechariah,
and I was reading this morning in the book of Zechariah,
you know, it's amazing to me,
I was being encouraged, Brother Mark,
because every time God was showing Zechariah something,
Zechariah said, what does that mean?
What does that mean?
And I'm like, man, I can relate with Zechariah, amen?
Because there's some times you're saying, what?
And this is, now some things are the milk,
but some of them are the meat.
Well, let me tell you what our brother Peter said.
As Peter is writing in 2 Peter chapter number three,
he says this, I'll give you a moment to turn there.
In 2 Peter chapter three, in verse number 14,
wherefore, beloved,
seeing that you look for such things,
be diligent that you may be found of him in peace
without spot and blameless,
and account that the longsuffering of our Lord is salvation
even as our beloved brother Paul,
also according to the wisdom given unto him
hath written unto you,
as also in all his epistles speaking in them
of these things, in which are some things,
what does it say?
Hard to be understood.
Is that what your Bible says?
That's what.
My Bible says.
So what does that mean?
Well, that means we gotta study.
Have you ever taken a class that challenged you?
Listen, as an adult, I don't like taking classes
that challenge me.
I'll be honest with you.
I got, as a senior in high school,
listen, I already had enough to graduate.
And I went to a class, calculus.
How many of you took calculus?
Bless the Lord, oh, I make you pray.
I'm telling you, I took calculus for one day.
I went to class that one day.
They gave us an assignment.
I went home.
Now, I aced all of the other math classes
going up to calculus.
I mean, it was easy.
But you ever reach like a, I maxed out,
like there's nothing left.
That's what I felt like with calculus.
And I went to that class, and I took that assignment,
and I went home, and I worked on it for hours.
And I got back to class the next day,
and the teacher stood up and said,
now that should have taken you about 15 minutes,
a good little refresher, and here are the answers.
I had three of the five wrong, and it took me hours,
and I raised my hand, and the teacher said, what's wrong?
I said, I need a different class.
I don't need this class.
I don't wanna be challenged by this.
And he said, that's terrible.
I'm just being honest with you.
Spiritually speaking, I wanna be challenged.
Sometimes there are things that are hard to be understood.
I had a preacher say this the other day,
and it absolutely, I don't know if you remember hearing him,
this guy, pastors in Texas,
been a pastor for 40 years, he made this statement,
and he said, I struggled with something in God's Word
for a decade and a half.
How long is that?
That's 15 years.
He said, I struggled over this thing for 15 years
that I couldn't fully understand.
And then after 15 years, God opened my eyes
and helped me understand it.
That's amazing to me.
Listen, Peter says,
under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit of God,
that Paul wrote some things,
and in the epistles that he wrote,
some of those things are hard to be understood.
It doesn't mean we give up.
It means we keep digging in.
We wanna grow spiritually.
I mentioned earlier, 1 Peter 2, in verse number two,
the Bible says, as newborn babes desire
the sincere milk of the Lord, that you may grow thereby.
Here in 2 Peter 3, I have you here already,
so notice just a few verses down in verse 18.
Let me just continue reading, starting in verse 16,
and I'll read through the end.
It says, as also in all his epistles,
speaking in them of these things,
in which are some things hard to be understood,
which they that are unlearned and unstable rest,
as they do also the other scriptures
under their own destruction.
Ye, therefore, beloved, seeing you know these things before,
notice what he says in verse 17,
beware lest ye also being led away
with the error of the wicked fall
from your own steadfastness,
but grow in grace and in the knowledge
of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ,
to him be glory both now and forever, amen.
You know what the remedy is for spiritual false teaching
and spiritual wickedness?
The antidote, the remedy for false teaching
is growth spiritually.
Listen, if you're grounded in God's word,
you're not gonna be tossed to and fro
with every wind of doctrine,
because you're grounded in God's word.
Something comes up and somebody says something,
and you're like, eh, that doesn't fit
with what the Bible says, amen.
Hebrews six and verse number one,
we read in Hebrews five, you don't need to turn there,
but in verse 11 through 14,
in verse number one of chapter six,
the Bible says this, let us go on unto perfection.
I believe that I could rightly say,
let us go on to spiritual maturity,
and that spiritual growth.
See, this evening, we talk about this subject
of we ought to grow spiritually.
Let me leave you with two thoughts, and we'll be done.
Number one, you should desire to grow spiritually.
If you're saved, you should desire to grow.
I hope that we never get to a place
where we're just comfortable with where we are.
So you know what, I've gone as far as I've gone.
That's what I did with calculus years ago.
I said I'm good, I've reached, no, no, no.
I hope spiritually we never come to that place
that we desire to continue to grow,
to get closer and closer.
You know what's amazing, that Moses,
after he saw God do so many amazing things,
says that I might know him, that I might know thee.
Paul, after he experienced so many wonderful things
in Philippians three, that I might know him.
Wow, these are two, one Old Testament,
one New Testament that we look at
as being great heroes of the faith,
but they're saying after,
this is not in the beginning of their life,
in their beginning of their spiritual journey.
This is after they'd walked with God
and seen God do amazing things, they wanna know God.
They wanna know God.
You have to desire it.
And then I would say this, number two,
develop a plan to grow spiritually.
Can I say it this way?
You're not gonna grow spiritually on accident.
If we use the analogy as we used a few minutes ago
of working out and physical exercise,
by the way, profit is little, there is some profit,
but it's little, according to 1 Timothy.
But there's a plan that's developed
if there's a desire to grow, amen?
I'm not watching the Olympics
and you make the decision for yourself,
but those that are competing in the Olympics right now,
they had a desire, they had a goal.
What was their goal?
They wanna win a medal.
Am I right?
If you know what they did, they developed a plan
and they worked really hard.
I mean, they worked really hard
to be able to even qualify to represent their country
on that stage.
They worked exceedingly hard.
I mean, they sacrificed so that they could grow
in their discipline in order to compete
so that they might win.
Am I right?
Paul says this, that I may win Christ.
I may win Christ.
See, we gotta have a desire to grow spiritually.
It's not gonna happen on accident.
We have the desire, we have to develop a plan.
How can I grow spiritually?
It's not gonna happen on accident.
It's an everyday commitment
that we're gonna grow spiritually.
I wanna get a little closer to God today
than I was yesterday.
I wanna understand a little bit more about God today
than I did yesterday
because we wanna grow spiritually.
We ought to grow spiritually.
Let's pray.
Father, we love you.
We thank you for loving us.
Thank you for your word.
I pray that you'd help us this evening,
Lord, to grow spiritually.
Help us not to get comfortable with where we are
in our Christian walk.
Lord, help us to have the desire.
Help us to develop a plan.
I pray that you'd move and work,
Lord, to help us not to soon forget
what we've heard this evening.
We'll thank you for it.
In Christ's name we pray, amen.
Does anyone need a prayer bulletin this evening?
You didn't get one on your way?